Verschillen zoeken in tekst bestanden kan meet diff op Unix of Mac en op windows met fc.(file compare). 
De layout is wat anders. Het kan je helpen om fouten te vinden in code (als oude versie goed werkt en niuewe niet meer). 

diff commando on terminal
diff -u oude_bestand nieuwebestand

How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you see the bug that was introduced?
- veel informatie was het zelfde en daar kan de fout niet inzitten. Je reduceert het een boel

How could having easy access to the entire history of a file make you a more efficient programmer in the long term?
- Kan tijd schelen, als je oude werkende zaken weer terug wilt halen
- Als je delen weer terug wilt halen
- 


svn
cvs
hg
git


commits --> create version

One Commit per Logical Change Solution

You commit all the changes required to add a new feature, which you’ve been working on for a week. You haven’t committed since you started working on it.

This commit commit seems too big. It's easier to understand what each commit does if each only does one thing and is fairly small. Going a week without committing is not the best idea.

You found three typos in your README. You fix and commit the first.

This commit seems too small. It would be better to fix all three typos, then commit. That way, your history won't get too cluttered with typo fixes. Plus, you don’t need to worry about introducing bugs to a README, so bundling changes together is more likely to be a good idea.

You commit all the changes required to add a new feature, which you’ve been working on for an hour.

This is probably a good size for a commit. All the work is on a single feature, so the commit will have a clear logical purpose. After an hour, the diff will probably have a fair amount of content in it, but not too much to understand.

On the other hand, sometimes after working for an hour you’ll have run into more than one natural committing point, in which case you would want to break the feature up into smaller commits. Because of this, “too big” could also be a reasonable answer here.

You fix two small bugs in different functions and commit them both at once.

This commit is probably too big. It would have been better to commit after the first bug fix, since the two bug fixes aren't related to each other.

Judgement Call

Choosing when to commit is a judgement call, and it's not always cut-and-dried. When choosing whether to commit, just keep in mind that each commit should have one clear, logical purpose, and you should never do too much work without committing.



** What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when to create a commit, like you do in Git, vs having versions automatically saved, like Google docs does?
size is about right
no intermediate changes with version that do not work


INterrelated files
for example HTML and CSS files


commit: all files in repository


git log --stat

git diff id_one id_two


Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?

